This is a proposal for Flock 2016 to be held in Krakow, Poland

Tuesday 2 August - Friday 5 August (Weekend dates are under discussion
as well)

= The city =

The city of [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kraków Krakow] is the
second largest city of Poland and is the country's former capital.
It is sometimes spelled as Cracow in English although its correct
English name is Krakow nowadays. Krakow is the top tourist destination
in Poland. The city basks in the glory of its long history and it
greatly treasures its reputation as the culture capital of Poland.

Krakow's seven universities plus almost twenty other institutions
of higher education make it the country’s leading center of science
and education. The city's expanding service sector is the lifeblood
of local economy but varied industry and production still provide
substantial proportions of jobs and wealth. Krakow is the metropolis
of southern Poland and the capital city of the Malopolska Province.
The city has about 755,000 permanent residents and the Krakow
conurbation totals some 1.5 million people. The cosmopolitan
atmosphere of the city center may be somewhat misleading. Despite
recent growth in the number of immigrants and expatriates, inhabitants
of Krakow remain ethnically almost homogeneous and they proudly
declare their Polish nationality.

Geographic coordinates of downtown Krakow are 50°04'N 19°56'E. The
city lies in southern Poland on the banks of Wisla (Vistula) river.

== Currency ==

Poland uses the Polish Zloty (PLN)

Currency Value as of 17 December 2015 (xe.com)

1 PLN = 0.25 USD<br />
1 USD = 3.92 PLN

1 PLN = 0.23 EUR<br />
1 EUR = 4.29 PLN

Note: Beginning 16 January the Polish Zloty experienced a decline
in value.  It remains to be seen if this is a short-term blip or
something that will last longer

Currency Value as of 17 January 2016 (xe.com)

1 PLN = 0.24 USD<br />
1 USD = 4.12 PLN

1 PLN = 0.22 EUR<br />
1 EUR = 4.49 PLN

== Airports ==

The Krakow airport - IATA code KRK, ICAO code EPKK - is situated
conveniently on the Balice outskirts of the city, just 15 km (about
ten miles) west of the city center. It is on the A4 expressway to
Silesia province and Germany.  Krakow's Balice international airport
is Poland’s second busiest after Warsaw, Poland's capital city.
The airport is easily accessible by direct train from the city
center at a cost of 8 PLN and takes 17 minutes and includes wifi
and power onboard.

Estimated costs of flights from … (via kayak.com on 17 December 2015)

* BOS $900-1300 Swiss/Lufthansa(1 Stop/ 2 stops)
* RDU $1400(2 Stops JFK,WAW; Lot Polish Airlines) 
* BOM $780-1400 (1-2 stops)
* CDG $160-250 (direct Easy Jet)
* PRG $200 (1 stop via Vienna) (Better to go by bus/train or car)
* BRQ (Better to go by bus/train or car)
* VIE $200 (direct)

== Intercity Trains and Buses  ==

Trains and Buses arrive at a pair of terminals located near the
city center.  The stations are located side by side and are next
to Galeria Krakowska, a world class shopping mail that includes
restaurants, coffee houses, cafes and a Carrefour Express grocery
store.

The Bus Station is named Malopolski Dworzec Autobusowy (MDA).  If
you are taking the Leo Express Bus from Bohumin, Czech Republic it
is the stop in Krakow called "Kraków, Bosacka (PKS)."

The Train Station is named Krakow Glowny.

The local transportation hub is situated under train station and
outside of the Galeria.

Estimated costs from …

* PRG 725 CZK one-way [https://www.cd.cz/en/mezinarodni-cestovani/specialni-nabidky/cd-bus-krakov/-23251/ Ceske Drahy] or [http://www.le.cz/ Leo Express]
* BRQ 520 CZK one-way [https://www.cd.cz Ceske Drahy] to Bohumin, Czech Republic + [http://www.le.cz Leo Express] to Krakow or [http://www.studentagency.eu Student Agency ]

== Local Transportation ==

Krakow’s municipal transport company, known in the city under its
acronym MPK maintains 137 day bus lines totaling about 650 kilometers
& 27 tram lines that consist of some 84 kilometers of double tramways.
Trams in Krakow don’t run at night (roughly midnight to 5 a.m.)
Eight night bus lines that cover nearly 130 kilometers constitute
Krakow’s night public transport.

Tickets Prices:

* 1 way ticket (20 min ticket) - 2.80 PLN
* 1 way ticket (40 min ticket) - 3.80 PLN
* 2 way ticket (20 min ticket) - 5.20 PLN
* 24h ticket - 15 PLN
* 48h ticket - 24 PLN
* 72h ticket - 36 PLN
* 7 - day ticket 48 PLN

Do not forget to validate your ticket once you are on-board by
sticking it into the yellow validation boxes located throughout the
vehicle.  Tickets are not always inspected, however you are subject
to random inspection.  You must present a valid and validated ticket
to a ticket inspector upon request.  Ticket inspectors have badges
or other identification and speak English.

= Event Location =

Several properties were considered, however only one property could
provide both meetings rooms and sleeping rooms for the conference.

BEST WESTERN PREMIER KRAKOW HOTEL<br />
ul. Opolska 14a<br />
31-323 Kraków, Poland<br />
tel. +48 12 376 37 00<br />
tel. +48 801 08 02 60<br />
fax +48 12 376 37 01<br />
http://www.bestwesternkrakow.pl

GPS: 50.090900, 19.914500<br />
N 50°05'27,2''  E 19°54'52,2''

The hotel is located outside of the city center in a quiet location.
The hotel is off of a main highway and has good bus connections and
plenty of parking.  Being out of the city does not create a problem
and in fact is a plus if you will be doing any sight seeing in the
area.  There is regular, cheap and reliable bus service only a 10
minute walk away and the hotel staff will point you in the right
direction.  See "Getting There" below for more information.

The hotel staff is very helpful and speak English, and often several
other languages.

== Meeting Rooms ==

Meeting Rooms: (Rental fee includes: flipchart + markers, projector, screen)

Floor Plan: http://www.bestwesternkrakow.pl/en/conferences/

Suggested Usage:
* Keynote: Picasso: 200 Theater - 510 EUR/day (also includes sound system)
* Breakout 1 Track: Monet: 81 Theater / 40 Classroom - 120 EUR/day
* Breakout 2 Track: Rembrandt: 81 Theater / 40 Classroom - 120 EUR/day
* Breakout 3: Matejko & Canaletto: 88 Theater / 40 Classroom - 240 EUR/day (2 rooms combined)
* Breakout 4: Chelmonski & Malczewski: 88 Theater / 40 Classroom - 240 EUR/day (2 rooms combined)
* Office: Van Gogh: 54 Theater / 21 Classroom - 120 EUR/day (one floor up)

Picasso, Monet, and Rembrandt have ceiling mounted projectors.  All
rooms have ceiling mounted screens, though a larger (provided)
screen may be suggested for Picasso.  Rooms have floor power boxes
throughout and many have additional wall power outlets.  Hotel may
be able to provide power-bars.

== Food and Beverage ==

Base pricing for Food and Beverage is as follows:

Coffee break (coffee, tea, snacks, water):
* single: from 3,75€/pp
* all day: from 6€/pp

Buffet lunches: from 15 €/pp

== Lodging ==

Double/Twin Room - 65 EUR per night including buffet breakfast and
WiFi

The hotel also provides guests with access to a swimming pool and
sauna.  There is also a small workout room (gym) available in the
partner hotel next door.  The use of these facilities is included

== Getting There ==

=== Local Bus ===

==== From the City Center ====

From Krakow City Center take bus 130 from the Galeria/Train/Bus
Station (Stop: Dworzec Glowny Zachod) toward Azory to Rozyckiego
stop.  A 20 min ticket should suffice.  From the stop walk about
10 minutes to the hotel (1 turn and cross a road).  The bus runs
every 10 min from 0900 - 2100 (9am - 9pm).  From 0400 - 0900 (4am
- 9am) and 2100 - 2400 (9pm - Midnight) the bus runs every half
hour.

From 0000 - 0400 (Midnight - 4am) take the night bus, 904, toward
Wieliczka Kampus, which runs every hour.  Please be aware that the
night bus departs the city center from the same area, but a different
location.  The night bus city center departure is called Dworzec
Glowny.

Tickets (Billet in Polish) can be purchased on the bus from a ticket
machine (use the door labeled Automat Billetowy), at some bus stops
at ticket machines, and at some (but not all) Tabaks.  Make sure
you have change when using a ticket machine!

Getting to the City center is the reverse of the above.  Bus 130
toward Dworzec Glowny Zachod.  Bus 904 toward Pradnik Bialy.

The 904 bus also passes through the Kazimierz (Jewish District) where
a lot of bars, restaurants and cultural attractions can be found.
This makes it easy to return to the hotel from this district late
at night.  Use stop Dietla.

==== From the Airport ====

Trains depart every 30 minutes for the City Center.  Tickets cost
8 PLN and should be purchased before boarding.  The train is faster
and considered more convenient than the bus.

Bus 292 departs every 20 minutes for the City Center.  Tickets cost
4 PLN and should be purchased before boarding.  Bus 292 and Bus 130
intersect at the same stop.  Bus 130 will take you to the hotel.
See above for more information.

After midnight, take night bus 902.

Both the Train and the Bus deposit passengers in the same area.
Getting to the hotel is easy, just follow the directions above.

=== Taxi and Uber ===

Krakow is served by both a taxi service and uber.  A taxi from the
City Center to the hotel is about 20 PLN.

A taxi from the Airport to the Hotel is about 75 PLN.

=== By Car, Bus, Train or Plane ===

Use a mapping program, GPS, or travel provider website as needed. :)

== Additional Lodging and Meeting Space ==

Hotel Efekt is a co-owned sister property of the Best
Western located next door.  Additional sleeping and meeting rooms
may be available there at similar rates.

= Evening Event Ideas =

==Browar Lubicz==

A one of a kind place for beer lovers in Krakow

https://www.facebook.com/browarlubiczrestauracja/

Founded in 1840, and reopened in 2015 after 14 years of silence,
this historic brewery has reinvented itself as an upscale brew-pub
(coinciding with the completion of the exclusive residences that
surround it), replete with a snazzy logo, stylish post-industrial
design, door greeters, a full card of local fare, and signature
ales brewed on-site.

A tasting of 3 draught beers (lager, dark and wheat beer) is on
offer.  Their own honey-roasted wheat malt comes as a beer snack
and the menu offers beer-infused interpretations of local standards
like 'maczanka' and 'golanka' and a beer soup.

== Guided tours: Main Square or Kazimierz (Jewish District) ==

All attendees will be split in 5 groups among licensed Krakow
guides for an inspiring exploration of the city that ends with a
shot in [Alchemia](http://alchemia.com.pl/). The  person representing
Krakow guided tours has asked us to let them know ASAP as the
beginning of August should be very busy.

== Nightlife in Kazimierz (Jewish District) ==

If you want to get a real taste of the proper nightlife in Krakow
just head to the fabulous district Kazimierz and the great area
Plac Nowy. Plac Nowy is teeming with superb, eclectic pubs, bars
and restaurants.

== Krakow underground ==

Possible in 7 groups.  Entrance is staggered every half hour.
This should be strongly considered as it is a very cool place

== The “Wieliczka” Salt Mine ==

The Salt Mine is located 10 km from the centre of Krakow. It is
located in the vicinity of the E40 route and may be accessed in
a few convenient ways. by  train from the Main Railway Station
in Krakow (Dworzec Główny) to the Wieliczka Rynek Kopalnia train
station.The trains run at set hours every 30 minutes and the
journey lasts 22 minutes and costs around 3 PLN one-way. The site
features health resorts, restaurants and serves as a jumping off
point for trips.  Admission to the mine is about 84 PLN for non-Polish
language tours.  Hours are from 0800 - 1700, check them before you
go.

Dress appropriately as the mine is cold even in the Summer.  Average
temperature underground is 15 degrees (59 degrees F).

= Other Touring Ideas =

Considering staying in the area longer?  You may want to add these
on to your visit.

== Zakopane ==

Zakopane is Poland's premier mountain resort, is one of the
country's most popular holiday destinations, both in the winter
for skiing and in the summer for hiking and camping.  Bus is by
far your best bet for getting up to Zakopane. Two private lines
and one PKS all leave from the main bus station (dworzec autobusowy)
at regular intervals. If you're going at any civilised time of
the day you will probably have to wait no longer than an hour for
your next carriage. What's more they are dirt cheap - it will
only cost you around 15 zloty for the two-hour trip from Cracow.
If you're in a hurry you can even buy your ticket from the driver.
That said advance tickets are advised in season, and there may
be the odd jam on the roads.

== Auschwitz ==

Auschwitz concentration camp was a network of German Nazi
concentration camps and extermination camps built and operated
by the Third Reich in Polish areas annexed by Nazi Germany.  The
camp is now a museum and is easily accessible by bus from the main
station.  The ride is about 1h40min and costs about 12 PLN.

== Communism Tour ==

Private companies offer tours (~140 PLN per person) to Nowa Huta
to show what life was like under Communism.  Many are done in
historic cars (Trabant 601) and include guides.  You can also visit
the Nowa Huta neighborhood by public transportation easily from the
main station on Tram 4.  The PRL Museum in the Nowa Huta neighborhood
is highly recommended.

= Staff =

* Brian Exelbierd (bex@pobox.com)
* Dominika Bula

Interested in helping with the bid? Contact Brian

[[Category:Flock]]
